 
 
I was 15, stuck inside my house during another long summer. I was born with a condition that impaired my ability to walk, and summers without my parents felt like an endless cycle—until that one day. On that day, my parents sat me down and introduced me to a new summer camp that popped up: Camp Sunshine. Nowadays, it's Camp Sunshine and Snowflake. It was a summer camp for all impeded, whether impeded in speech or with body. The camp would be a crutch that I would come to rely on.
I realize the miracles of life. But others? They don’t realize the thousands of generations of evolution that enabled them to live, talk, and walk. Instead, they take everything for granted. However, some don’t take this for granted
My parents brought me there. We were roasting in the building. But the staff were good. They took care of us, and there were also volunteers helping out for no pay. I was there with a few other people, all impeded. Most couldn’t speak, but I could. I was in good company. 25 years later, the place was different. They added a winter section, and they began charging a fee of $500 every week. They also brought in more volunteers, but these were different. Over the years, the volunteers changed. Many were just looking for recognition, but Sam? He was different. They traded quality for quantity. Nowadays, good volunteers are few and far between. However, out of the bad-quality volunteers, one stood above the rest: Sam.
The day I had Sam as my volunteer, I immediately noticed how he stood out. He had a quality of caring, and he was a quality volunteer. The day began with my mom dropping me off. I arrived a little early, so I got to chat with the staff for a while. Normally, volunteers arrive around 9:30. However, Sam was there at 9 a.m., 30 minutes before everyone else. He immediately greeted me, and I could tell there was something different about him.
 To pass the time, we chatted for a while. Time quickly passed. After a few announcements, one of the staff hooked me up to my oxygen. If I wasn’t hooked up for more than an hour, I could pass out. The entire camp played a modified version of soccer for the camp activity. I’ll go through the rules. There are two teams, A and B. One person is selected from a random team to play goalie. The goalie stands or positions their wheelchair in front of the goal. For those who cannot participate because of a mental condition, their volunteers position them. Someone selected from the other team kicks. If the kicker is in a wheelchair, they may use their hands or other methods. For a kicker who is not mentally capable, it’s a matter of trial and error. I don’t participate in the camp activities.
 
After the activity, me and Sam changed into our swimsuits. One of the staff helped me change. After changing, the whole camp went into the swimming pool. I and the other people in the wheelchairs got in with several methods. For some, they were loaded onto a wheelchair made of PVC that could go into water and then pushed down a ramp. I couldn’t get in the special wheelchair. But I didn’t let that stop me. I got lowered down into the swimming pool by a special crane.
 
After being lowered into the water, Sam was instructed to grab onto me to prevent me from falling over. He followed his instructions, unlike some volunteers who ditched their assigned campers at every chance they got. After the dip in the pool, people in wheelchairs (like me) and their volunteers were brought in early. This is because people in wheelchairs take longer to change and get into the building. Because of this, people in wheelchairs were also brought into the pool late. We then changed into our regular clothes, and my volunteer played ping pong while he waited for me to finish. After I changed, he stayed close to me, unlike others. Then it was lunchtime.
 
During lunch, he got my lunch bag out of the freezer, unpacked it, and served it to me. We talked for a while, and he got me some iced tea. After lunch, we had arts and crafts. We made a soccer field out of a box, and he helped me reach places that I couldn’t reach. We also had to paint the sides, which he helped me to do. After that, he also helped me cut out the logos for the advertisements, and we were done. The whole time, I was amazed at how responsive and caring he was.
 
I asked him why he was such a good volunteer. He told me that his brother had Down’s syndrome and was in a wheelchair. He said that his brother had passed away, and he wanted to help people who were like his brother. Soon after, we changed clothes and went for a swim. The pool’s water was warm, and the air smelled of chlorine. Sam held onto me, as instructed. Once everyone was in the water, the staff announced some activities.
 
The first activity was where we would swim in circles, creating a whirlpool. I couldn’t participate. The next activity was making arm circles, which I could do. After that, I was lifted out by the crane, and I was changed back into my regular clothes. For dessert, they served ice cream, and Sam got me a bowl.
 
After the desert, everyone at camp was called for a walk outside. During the walk, we went around the pond and walked to a nearby field. I could smell the field’s flowers. There, we played a game where we split into two teams and had to collect objects that were spread along the field. The team with the most objects collected would win. We played several rounds of that, including rounds where certain objects would be worth more. After the activity, we gathered up and headed back. I had a conversation with Sam while we were waiting, and we also played a card game. After that, he left, and I got picked up.
Just think about how the world would be changed if more people were like Sam. Imagine the good it would create, and how much better the world would be. Take that thought with you.
While I may be disabled, and treated differently because of that, I don’t let that set me back. During middle and high school, I was bullied and ridiculed because I was disabled. That didn’t stop me though. I graduated high school and went to Bergen Community College. We are all made of the same parts, even if some are unlike others. Outside, we may be different, but inside, we’re the same.
 

